# Routing and Switching

What are the layers of the TCP/IP model?
Application, Host-To-Host, Internet, Network Access

Which of the following is the name of a Layer 3 PDU?  -->> frame **packet** segment

What is a collision domain?
A part of a network where frame collisions can
occur.
Collision domain is created with hub, because HUB simply re-translate packet to all ports. In this domain packets can collide and create interferance in the wire/medium. 

ARP
Its a protocol that allows to translate IP address (L3) to hardware address or MAC address(L2 )

The first 24 bits in MAC address which uniquely identifies a vendor or manufacturer is  called
Answer OUI

Name any three TCP Flags
URG, ACK, PSH, SYN, RST, FIN, CWR,ECE
 
What is the first mode that you encounter on a Cisco device when you log in? --> User Mode

What is RAM, and what is stored there?
Random Access Memory - Used for temporary storage in a router of such things as the running-configuration, routing table, and ARPtable.

What is stored in Flash? --> IOS File

What is NVRAM?
Opposite to volatile memory , non-volatile memory (VNRAM) as save info. even if switch/router is down, so it is used to store so called startup-configuration file.  

What is POST?
POST is a set of test/diagnostic that are run first when computer or switch or router are starting. It perform low level check of main hardware components. 

What is duplex?
Its a term related to communication between to points in the network and describe if comm. is performed simultaneously or peers have to "talk" assynchronyosly (one sending data, other listens and vise versa.)

What is a VLAN?
Its a virtual LAN that can be created within one switch allows to distingvish multiple networks by specific ports. All devices on the same VLAN are in the same subnet. This technology/technique is accomplished by attaching additional tag to the header. 

What is DTP?
DTP stands for Dynamic Trunking Protocol. Its a protocol that is responsible for binding parts of VLAN that are located on different switches . Dynamic part of the term means that negotiation between switches is done automaticly.

What is VTP?
VLAN Trunking Protocol - Allows you to centrally manage all VLANs in a network. This is accomplished in very efficeint way because only one ports is needed to setup trunking port that can be used by multyple (2 and more) vlans. No separate channel is every VLAN.

Name the cisco three layer hierarchical model: --> Core, distribution and Access

What are the types of VTP modes? --> server, client and transparent

Commands to configure access port:
>interface range range_of_interfaces
>switchport mode access
>switchport access vlan X

Command to set bridge priority in STP: -->> >spanning-tree vlan X priority X

What are the STP port states ? -->> Learning, Blocking, Forwarding, Listening

What is a routing table?
Its a digital table that is located inside of every router. it contains routers known to the router. Theres could be static entered by admin, or generated by some algorithm like RIP.

Which of the following are types of routes that you will find in a routing table? -->> static, Dynamic, Host, Default

What is administrative distance?
Its a number that represent level of trust to a specific route based on the some creteria. for instance static route has admin. distance of 1 . The lower the number the more trust in it. If there are few alternatives , route with lower admin cost will be chosen.

What is a default route?
Its a route that is chosen by a router for a packet that has dest. ip unknown for a router based on his routing table. Its marked as 0.0.0.0 for ip and 0.0.0.0 for mask

What is an SVI?

SVI - switched virtual interface is one of the layer 3 routing options for vlans, when a special switch is used. This switch is capable of creating virtual L3 interfaces meaning interfaces with assigned IP and mask information. This approach allows to avoid using separated router.

what are the different interface statuses?
up
down/down
admin down - initiated by the admin.

Command to show static route -->> show ip route static

A stub indicates that a network has only one way to reach all other networks  ->  True

What is OSPF?
OSPF stands for Open Shortest Path First. It is a routing protocol(meaning protocol that automates learning routes). 

What algorithm does OSPF use to calculate metric?

So called Dijkstra algorithm. ... named by name of the person who created it.

Name the states in OSPF followed from ‘init’ state: 2-way, exstart, exchange, loading, full.

What is the Administrative distance of OSPF?  -->> 110

What is the multicast address that OSPF uses ?  224.0.0.5 - used to send hello messages, 224.0.0.6 is used by DR to listen on updates. 

What is the name of the database table that OSPF maintains for LSA’s ?   -->> it is so called link state database - LSDB

what is the name of  protocol used between two/more  autonomous system  ->> EGP . 1-st letter stands for 'exterior'. That's why it is used to bind two or more autonomous system. Example - BGP.

ASBR -> Autonomous System Boundary Router

Backbone Router --> A router that participates in the OSPF process with an interface in Area 0.

ABR -->> Area Border Router  A router with an interface in Area 0 and another interface in another area.

If the DR fails, the BDR becomes the DR, and a new BDR is elected.
When a better router enters the subnet, no preemption of the existing DR or BDR occurs.
OSPF uses a highest-is-best approach and does not preempt the DR as just noted.
default priority values of 1 in ospf.

224.0.0.5 - is used to send HELLOs
224.0.0.6 is used to send update to DR and BDR, that's why and DR and BDR are listening on that port.

LSA - link state message.

5 LSA types :
    LSA Type 1: Router LSA.
    LSA Type 2: Network LSA. - DR
    LSA Type 3: Summary LSA. ABR - Area Border Router
    LSA Type 4: Summary ASBR LSA. - Autonomous system boundary router
    LSA Type 5: Autonomous system external LSA.
    LSA Type 6: Multicast OSPF LSA.
    LSA Type 7: Not-so-stubby area LSA.
    LSA Type 8: External attribute LSA for BGP.

speed is rate of data exchange between interfaces
duplex - how data flow: one-way, both-way syn

auto-negotional - selecting best setting for communication between switches.

no duplex - reset
no speed - reset 